# BookMe
#### Video Demo: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=P9YEQKuGYM0
#### Description: BookMe is my CS50 final project. It is a website that enables people donate their used textbooks from school to people who apply on the website to receive them. It was built with Django, HTML, CSS, Javascript, Bootstrap and Postgres. The Postgres server is hosted on a docker container

Bookme Project structure
1.Bookme
    -.venv
    -BookDonations
    -BookMe
    -static
    -.gitignore
    -db.sqlite3
    -manage.py
    -requirements.txt

1. .venv: This folder contains the virtual environment setup configuration and all installed python packages. I made use of a virtual environment to prevent package version clashes and to keep my database information seure in order to prevent any attacker from making use off the exposed information to access my database if in a production environment

2. BookMe: This is the Django project folder

BookMe structure
BookMe
    -__init__.py
    -asgi.py
    -docker-compose.yaml
    -settings.py
    -urls.py
    -wsgi.py
i. asgi.py: setup by Django project by default. contains asgi configuration
ii. docker-compose.yaml: contains the docker configuration for the posgres and pgadmin container
iii. settings.py: contains the settings for th Django project
iv. urls.py: contains the urls for all Django apps used

3. BookDonations: This is the app folder I created. BookDonations app handles accepting bookdonations and also receives requests for books. It stores the information to the database and displays it on the admin page to enable admin usage of the information

BookDonations folder structure
BookDonations
    -migrations
    -templates
    -__init__.py
    -admin.py
    -apps.py
    -forms.py
    -models.py
    -tests.py
    -urls.py
    -views.py
i. migrations: folder contains information on all model migrations/ changes carried out in this app
ii. templates: the templates folder contains all the html files written for the project
templates\BookDonations
    -base.html
    -contact.html
    -donate.html
    -index.html
    -receive.html
    -success.html
a. base.html: The base html from which all other html are extended from. It contains the html for the header and footer html code
b. contact.html: contains the html code for the contact page
c. donate.html: contains the html code for the donate page
d. index.html: contains the html code for the main page
e. receive.html: contains the html code for the receive page
f. success.html: contains the html code for the success page that displays on successful filling of the form on either the donate or receive page
iii.__init__.py: automatically generated by the Django app
iv. admin.py: registers the Book_Donor and Book_Receiver models to the Django admin page
v. apps.py: creates the BookDonations Django app
vi. forms.py: creates the BookReceiver and BookDonor form from their respective models
vii. models.py: creates the Book_Donor and Book_Receiver models
viii. tests.py: contains tests used to check if the BookDonations app views are functioning appropriately. It is incomplete and only contains tests for the HomePageView
ix. urls.py: registers the various url paths available in the BookDonations app
x. views.py: creates the various views for the BookDonations app

4. static: contains all the static CSS, image and Javascript files used in the Django Project (BookMe)
static folder structure
static
    -css
    -images
    -js
i. css: this folder contains styles.css which is the only css file used by all the templates in the project.
ii. images: this folder contains all the images (.webp,.png,.svg,.jpeg) used for the project. It also contains the favicon.ico file which enables the website's logo to be displayed on each open tab in a web browser.
iii. js: this folder contains index.js which is the only Javascript file used in the project.

5. .gitignore: This file tells git to ignore adding some files to it.

6. db.sqlite3: The sqlite database file. It was unused but I just kept it because I didn't know if anything bad will happen from removing it.

7. manage.py: This file is used to run Django commands in the command line (wsl, Git Bash, powershell).

8. requirements.txt: This contains all the external packages used for the project


Database (Postgres on a docker container):  I choose to mount Postgres on a docker container because I found the setup process easier with docker. I was unable to setup Postgres using the one I had locally installed



